After working in the military for 24 years, I decided to earn my degree in Computer Science with a focus on software engineering.  I have been attending SNHU for approximately two and a half years while completing my degree.  In that time, I have created many artifacts using Java, C++, and Python as my primary programming languages. The curriculum focused on solving problems faced by simulated companies using good programming principles and security practices. It also included many opportunities to work in teams through the exploration of the agile development methodology and scrum team concepts. It also explored the benefits of Git version control and its uses in team environments. By introducing user stories, I learned about the tradeoffs necessary in implementing changes while still needing to meet product deadlines. I also learned to communicate concerns within that process both within the team and through the product owner to the customer.

Technically, the program prepared me to face challenges associated with programming business solutions and meet deadlines for development. This also reinforced the pitfalls when appropriate tests are not developed and security is not stressed during the programming phase of development and the damage that could be incurred by the both the business and the customer. I was taught to work through program logic using standard practices with pseudocode and UML Design concepts. This provided me a deep understanding of loops and branches, and this is demonstrated in my first and second artifacts below.  By incorporating more theoretical concepts involved with programming into the technical aspects of working through coding projects, I developed a better understanding of why memory and time complexity are major concerns as products scale or designs are used in embedded systems. In addition to those concepts, I developed proficiency in data structures and algorithms and their associated time complexities for the major operations: insert, delete, read, and update. This concept is represented by my second artifact and its use of those operations on a linked list. The curriculum also emphasized various operating systems and command-line interface functions and using similar syntax in developing and working with SQL (Structured Query Language) and NoSQL (Not only SQL) databases. This stressed data organization and planning and finally led to scripting the core database operations: create, read, update, and delete. This is a core concept of the third artifact.  The three artifacts below incorporate this curriculum and demonstrate the core areas of Software Design and Engineering, Algorithms and Data Structures, and Databases.

Initially, I conducted a code review for three artifacts produced in classes taken toward my computer science degree. The main purpose of the review was to ensure readable and maintainable code. The review focused on software engineering concepts used within the code as well as following programming guideline and security best practices within the code. The videos of those reviews can be accessed below:

- Initial [review of Software Design and Engineering Artifact](https://github.com/gcook013/gcook013.github.io/blob/main/code_review/Software%20Design%20Code%20Review.mp4).
- Initial [review of Algorithm and Data Strtuctures Artifact](https://github.com/gcook013/gcook013.github.io/blob/main/code_review/Algorithms%20and%20Data%20Structure%20Code%20Review.mp4).
- Initial [review of Database Artifact](https://github.com/gcook013/gcook013.github.io/blob/main/code_review/Database%20Code%20Review.mp4).

The first artifact is a business solution menu demonstrating proficiency in Java program development. The program employs loops, branches, object-oriented programming principles, and appropriate data structures to solve a sample buisiness problem by allowing the user to add, edit, and remove information from arrays. The application also uses appropriate exception catching for user input.  The enhancement to the artifact demonstrates the ability to take a potential user story requesting new application functionality and implement it using good software engineering skills. This supports creating computing solutions that solve a given problem using computer science practices and standards appropriate to its solution. This also demonstrates an understanding of techniques, skills, and tools used in implementing computer solutions that deliver value and accomplish industry-specific goals.

Software Design and Engineering Artifact program files: [Cruise, Ship, and Passenger information system](https://github.com/gcook013/gcook013.github.io/tree/main/artifact1).

The second artifact is a business solution menu demonstrating proficiency in C++ program development. This program also employs loops, branches, appropriate data structures, and search algorithms to solve a sample buisiness problem by allowing both linear and binary searches as well as inserting, editing, and removing nodes from linked lists. The enhancement to the artifact highlights the performance gain using binary search algorithms on sorted lists and linear search algorithms on unsorted lists. Additionally, this program employs custom header files to parse CSV formatted input to load into nodes for manipulation. The application uses principles of recursion when creating the binary tree as it traversedseach branch to determine the correct placement of nodes based on their data. This shows how an application can solve a given problem using algorithmic principles and computer science practices.

Algorithms and Data Structure Artifact program files: [eBid Monthly Sales Application](https://github.com/gcook013/gcook013.github.io/tree/main/artifact2)

The third artifact is a database application that started with a python script that incorporated the basic database operations create, read, update, and delete.  The script was initially deployed in a jupyter notebook, but this didn't allow for much user interaction and all operations were hardcoded in the script.  The basic python script demonstrates an understanding of the fundamental database methods and how data is manipulated. It is based on MongoDB, a NoSQL database system and connects to an existing database which can be edited. I originally intended to enhance this artifact by coding HTML and JavaScript to call the python script. In my efforts to enhance the artifact, I instead used the Flask framework for Python to code the functionality of the script with custom HTML forms and CSS. This involved the conversion of HTML input fields into dictionary/JSON objects that could be passed to a MongoDB database to execute the core functions of the original Python script. After completing the script functions, the results are then passed back to the webpage using Jinja templating. This process demonstrates an understanding of the fundamentals of taking existing scripts and creating requests to that code through an HTML interface. This reinforces how users need to interact with scripts when working with underlfying applications that manipulate databases. This enhancement exemplifies computer solutions that deliver value using well-founded and innovative techniques, skills, and tools in computing practices specifically displaying proficiency with Python, HTML, and CSS.

Database Artifact program files: [Sample database operations via HTML interface](https://github.com/gcook013/gcook013.github.io/tree/main/artifact3)
