For my Algorithms and Data Structure artifact, I will be using a program the creates a linked list from imported data and allows a binary search within the data.  This artifact was introduced and developed in the course CS 260: Data Structures and Algorithms using the C++ programming language.  This artifact demonstrates an understanding of the fundamentals of data structures by creating a linked list.  In this artifact nodes are created and developed into a singly linked list and data can be inserted, removed, and searched.  The utilization of the linear search through the singly linked list demonstrates an understanding of the development and implementation of algorithms on data structures.  I enhanced the program by giving the user the ability to sort the data using a binary search tree.  The application will then determine if the data is sorted and use the most efficient data structure for the search depending on the situation and how the user has previously interacted with the imported data.  This includes concepts such as branches and loops along with object-oriented programming.  The application used principles of recursion when creating the binary tree as it traversed each branch to determine the correct placement of nodes based on their data.  This supports creating computing solutions that solve a given problem using computer science practices and standards appropriate to its solution.  This also demonstrates an understanding of techniques, skills, and tools used in implementing computer solutions that deliver value and accomplish industry-specific goals through my grasp of the C++ programming syntax.  I encountered a few issues with this program as I initially thought to repopulate the list after sorting.  Instead, instead I opted to maintain the underlying list and use the binary tree structure only when sorting.  This makes inserting and removing the nodes faster in normal operation and although it does slow down searching, the user can choose to sort the list if searches will be more common than data manipulation.
