For my Software Engineering/Design artifact, I will be using a program consisting of four java classes.  This artifact was introduced and developed in the course IT 145: Foundation in Application Development using the JAVA programming language.  The driver class contains the main method and helper methods to display menu items and prompts to receive input.  It then uses the information submitted along with properties and methods of the three other classes to allow the user to display, add, and edit information on ships, cruises, and passengers.  The three classes for ships, cruises, and passengers contain properties, methods, and constructors that allow the driver class the ability to add objects of each class to arrays created within the driver class.  This artifact shows understanding of program design and interaction.  This includes concepts such as branches and loops along with object oriented programming.  My enhancement to this project consisted of completing the code for the edit ship, edit cruise, and edit passenger methods.  This enhancement demonstrates my ability to take a potential user story requesting new application functionality and implement it using good software engineering skills.  This supports creating computing solutions that solve a given problem using computer science practices and standards appropriate to its solution.  This also demonstrates an understanding of techniques, skills, and tools used in implementing computer solutions that deliver value and accomplish industry-specific goals through my grasp of the java programming syntax.
